== README

SSM(Simple Server Monitoring)

collect system info(cpu usage, network usage etc..) and http 2XX,5XX log through fluentd
draw graph using d3, cubism js

tested in ubuntu
In Windows , gem install may be fail or not. I'm not sure. 

requirement

* ruby (may be above 2.0)
* nginx or apache
* mongodb
* fluentd


installation

1. clone this app
2. cd ssm 
3. bundle install
4. gem install fluentd --no-ri --no-rdoc
5. gem install fluent-plugin-mongo --no-ri --no-rdoc
6. gem install vmstat --no-ri --no-rdoc 
7. add plugin to fluentd
- in my fluentd plugin dir is
cd ~/.rbenv/versions/2.1.0/lib/ruby/gems/2.1.0/gems/fluentd-0.10.44/lib/fluent/plugin
ln -s ~/ssm/in_vmstat.rb ./in_vmstat.rb

8. edit ssm/fluentd.conf following lines to your env
  path /usr/local/etc/nginx/logs/ssm.log
  pos_file /Users/wongyeongyun/tmp/httpd-access.log.pos

9. edit ssm/config/mongoid.yml to your mongodb env.
10. add or change nginx log format(apache log is not tested)
- in your nginx.conf
--------------
log_format ssm '$server_name $server_port $remote_addr - $remote_user [$time_local] '
                    '"$request" $status $body_bytes_sent '
                    '"$http_referer" "$http_user_agent"';

access_log /usr/local/etc/nginx/logs/ssm.log ssm;
-----------------

and ssm.log will be like follow:

localhost 80 127.0.0.1 - - [13/Mar/2014:18:57:47 +0900] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 393 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_1) AppleWebKit/537.73.11 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/7.0.1 Safari/537.73.11"

11. fluentd -c ssm/fluentd.conf ( run fluentd )

12. your mongo console add following indexes ( or ssm will be slow)
> db.https.ensureIndex({time:-1})
> db.https.ensureIndex({code:1})
> db.vmstats.ensureIndex({time:-1})

13. end.






This README would normally document whatever steps are necessary to get the
application up and running.

Things you may want to cover:

* Ruby version

* System dependencies

* Configuration

* Database creation

* Database initialization

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions

* ...


Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.
